Skip to content

Che Dev Meetings

Ilya Buziuk edited this page Nov 21, 2022 · 315 revisions
Clone this wiki locally

Purpose and Audience

These conference calls are meant for the Che adopters and contributors to chat about some project development details (can be planning, concerns, or more technical details). The goal is to better synchronize and organize the efforts of the various contributors in order to make Che better.

It's open to anyone interested. You don't need to have a long history with Che to attend the talk, listen, and ask relevant questions.

When and Where

These meetings take place every third Monday of the month at 7:30 AM PST (it's 4:30 PM CEST). You can be part of the meeting (mic + chat + video cam) with Zoom. The event is available in the Eclipse Cloud Dev Tools Community calendar link. Please reach mario in Mattermost to be added to the calendar event. ical

Cancellation Policy

We really appreciate the time of all participants, so we cancel the meeting when there are no topics in our agenda.
We ask you provide your topic for discussion till Monday, 3:00 AM PST (it's 12:00 PM CEST).
A topic received after that time will be moved to the next meeting.

Next meeting

The next Che dev meeting will take place on December 19th. You are welcome to add the topics you would like to discuss or propose a demo during the call: Google Doc. Remember: no topics, no call.

Previous meetings

See Previous meeting archives

22-August-2022

Agenda

  1. Failed to start a workspace on minikube #21643 - Anatolii Bazko
  2. How to define a custom IDE in a devfile #21634 - Deel96

25-July-2022

Agenda

  1. Deprecation CheCluster API v1 #21579 - Anatolii Bazko

16-May-2022

Agenda

  1. Che Platform team knowledge transfer - Max Shaposhnik

09-May-2022

Agenda

  1. CheCluster API v2 PR #1324 - https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-operator/pull/1324 - Anatolii Bazko

02-May-2022

Agenda

  1. Starting a workspace from the devfile editor and alternatives. Related to https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/21340 and https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/18671.

25-April-2022

Agenda

  1. Git setup flow: past, current and future flow. Related to https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/20583

14-February-2022

Agenda

  1. Disabling “OAuth App access restrictions” for che-incubator. Related to https://github.com/eclipse-che/blog/pull/23.
  2. February 28 facilitator.

07-February-2022

Agenda

  1. Eclipse Che Website
  2. EclipseSource and Eclipse Che - https://eclipsesource.com/technology/eclipse-che/
  3. Samples for blog posts - https://github.com/che-samples ? related to the reviewing PR blog post - https://github.com/dkwon17/food-api-example - https://github.com/eclipse-che/blog/issues/19

24-January-2022

Agenda

  1. Documentation: https://gitlab.eclipse.org/eclipsefdn/helpdesk/-/issues/802 Migrating to the eclipse-che organization The main branch becomes the default Devworkpaces only. Starting with empty content to avoid misleading content https://github.com/eclipse/che-docs/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.adoc New rules, new rules! - Fabrice
  2. Che Blog - Syndication to Cloud DevTools blog - Brian

Recording: https://youtu.be/e9bOo6Muu6c

Minutes: Google doc

10-January-2022

Agenda

  1. Should the Eclipse Che hotfix releases be performed on demand, instead of a fixed schedule? They are of no use for downstream project - Mykhailo
  2. DevWorkspace articles publishing planning update - https://github.com/eclipse-che/blog/issues/19 - Ilya
  3. CRW will not enable devworkspace engine until 2.16 (Che continues to move to devworkspace in 7.42) - Mario

Recording: https://youtu.be/qP833DQ3JrU

Minutes: Google doc

22-November-2021

Agenda

  1. Remove ‘Hosted Che’ from the triage process, and find a replacement - https://github.com/eclipse/che/wiki/Issue-Tracking#triage-c - Ilya

Recording: https://youtu.be/62FbrKq_ULs

Minutes: Google doc

15-November-2021

Agenda

  1. Status check for https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/20664 - Enable 'Try in Web IDE GitHub action' in every Eclipse Che related repository - Ilya
  2. New required label for user defined resources https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-operator/pull/1166 - Mykola

Recording: https://youtu.be/RvqdCjOHgxA

Minutes: Google doc

8-November-2021

Agenda

  1. Enable 'Try in Web IDE GitHub action' in every Eclipse Che related repository #20644 - Ilya
  2. Remove Hosted Che team from the upstream issue triage - Ilya
  3. Rotating system to choose a moderator of the Che Community Call - Valerii
  4. area/doc label - Fabrice

Recording: https://youtu.be/YGO9rcsEivE

Minutes: Google doc

25-October-2021

New and Noteworthy

  1. Configure runtime controller with namespace event filter - Mykola
  2. Ability to provide the path to the devfile yaml file when using factory workflow #20607. Demo link - Florent
  3. Update OpenShift connector VS Code extension to v0.2.9. Demo link - Maksym

Recording: https://youtu.be/TqDWYvsy8es

Minutes: Google doc

18-October-2021

Agenda

  1. VS Code support: what workspace model? Discussing options for https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/20435 - Mario

New and Noteworthy

  1. New factory link parameter to specify the editor. Demo link - Florent
  2. Enhancements in the way how OAuth2 providers can be configured - Sergii Kabashniuk
  3. Update OpenShift connector VS Code extension to v0.2.9 - Igor Vinokur
  4. Update go version to v1.17 in plugin sidecar and getting started sample - Igor Vinokur

Recording: https://youtu.be/BWDctaVEgpc

Minutes: Google doc

20-September-2021

Agenda

  1. VS Code(Code-OSS) as an editor - Florent
  2. Changing time for the Che Community Call - Valerii

New and Noteworthy

  1. Dashboard Backend API for DevWorkspace. No demo, just noteworthy eclipse-che/che-dashboard#349 Most noticable: devworkspaces now are watched with WebSocket. Please report any unusual issue if any. - Serhii L

Recording: https://youtu.be/umHhHrTTO7o

Minutes: Google doc

06-September-2021

Agenda

  1. High level Che roadmap - Mario
  2. Try in Web IDE GitHub Action is now available on the marketplace, (reference) - Ilya

New and Noteworthy

  1. Eclipse Che community operator is migrated from the package manifest to the bundle format. It started requiring an OLM version greater or equal 0.17.0. #19244 - Anatolii

Recording: https://youtu.be/1O2e2URahNQ

Minutes: Google doc

30-August-2021

Agenda

  1. Che-docs publishing now content from release branch. The main branch can accept content for the next release. (Publication still executed from the master branch, but using content from the release branch) #2022 - Fabrice (5 min)
  2. SSH key creation from dashboard vs from Che Theia plugin - Sergii Kabashniuk (7min)
  3. New and noteworthy section to the community meeting - Sun (5 min)

Recording: https://youtu.be/baq4snF5lA0

9-August-2021

Agenda

  1. No other browsers than Google Chrome is supported - #20236 (Serhii L)
  2. Community call moderation (Valerii)
  3. Should we support single-user support? (Serhii L)

Recording: https://youtu.be/RghPcEUad4E

Minutes: Google doc

26-July-2021

Agenda

  1. Migrate manifests and API clients to use the networking.k8s.io/v1 API version - #20019 (Anatolii)
  2. Update areas labels corresponding to DevWorkspace engine, e.g DevWorkspace Che Operator (che-dwr ?) (Serhii L)

Recording: https://youtu.be/8z69vlLeEIU

Minutes: Google doc

05-July-2021

Agenda

  1. Github issues template with forms - issue (Florent Benoit)
  2. Store more metadata in github che repository - issue (Florent Benoit)

Recording: https://youtu.be/xPvs9lBtYrs

Minutes: Google doc

28-June-2021

Agenda

  1. Docs PR template #2043 - Creating visibility in upstream for the checklist writers are using. Useful? Confusing? (Fabrice)
  2. New Youtube channel, ML. (Sun)
  3. Releases. (All)

Recording: https://youtu.be/V-JLYP-DdNo

Minutes: Google doc

21-June-2021

Agenda

  1. Devfile 2.0 registry. (Elson Yuen)

Recording: https://youtu.be/lkVgZcwWjdM

Minutes: Google doc

14-June-2021

Agenda

  1. Go-builder/Go/generic-runtime image for Che tooling. Ubi8-minimal as basic runtime.
    Same approach to build these images. Multi-architecture support. (Sergii Kabashniuk)
  2. Using Travis-CI for all arch (Cindy Lee/Kirk Crane/Amit Ghatwal)
  3. QE reviews on procedures (Fabrice Flore-Thebault)
  4. Update on migration to eclipse-che org and master -> main as default branch (Nick B)
  5. Conventional commits - details (Mario)

Minutes: Google doc

07-June-2021

Agenda

  1. Post-7.yy.0 release milestone cleanup (Nick)
  2. Che docs version in master (Sergii Kabashniuk)
  3. Test product info in comments with Happy path PR test results, example (Dmytro Nochevnov)
  4. Weekly review of merged PRs and Release Notes, details (Mario)

Minutes: Google doc

31-May-2021

Agenda

  1. Theia frontend plugins: do we need them or not? (Vitaliy Guliy)
  2. Please review backup / restore PR. It introduces new controllers for Che operator as well as new CRDs - PR (Mykola Morhun)
  3. Android applications development and debug on physical device using Android Studio in Eclipse Che - Demo (Vlad Zhukovskyi)
  4. Moving away from nightly image builds. Now using :next (build for every commit) tags, as well as duplicated SHA tags for all development/release builds - issue (Mykhailo Kuznietsov)

Minutes: Google doc

24-May-2021

Agenda

  1. Any possibility of getting some love for che on Azure using Traefik? (Joe Fullmer)
    (please see details in mattermost Eclipse Che channel)
  2. Problem with cloning get started samples on the workspaces.openshift.com - issue (Ilya Buziuk)

Minutes: Google doc

17-May-2021

Agenda

  1. Move che-server source code to https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-server.
    Migrate maven projects involved in building Che server to new eclipse-che org (issue) (Sergii Kabashniuk)
  2. Move https://github.com/eclipse/che to https://github.com/eclipse-che/che (Sergii Kabashniuk)
  3. Upcoming events reminders: Cloud IDE Day, EclipseCon - Call for Proposals (Brian King)

Minutes: Google doc

26-April-2021

Agenda

  1. Multiarch Che (Z and Power images to be built w/ Travis) (Nick, Eric)
  2. How to proceed with dependencies which score is below 75 ? (Anatolii)
  3. Che server parameters reference documentation, issue, WIP Implementation: PR#1, PR#2 (Fabrice)
  4. Team updates within Teams updates section of the document (Florent)
  5. Che docs use survey (Fabrice)

Minutes: Google doc

19-April-2021

Agenda

  1. Request from https://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=572898 (Serhii Leshchenko)
  2. Multi-root will be the only mode in Che-Theia, no feature toggle anymore: issue for tracking (Artem)
  3. Migrate dashboard to yarn 2: issue for tracking (Oleksii Orel)

Minutes: Google doc

12-April-2021

Agenda

  1. Multiple vulnerabilities in images (Jenia Dysln)
  2. Installation in restricted env using chectl (Jenia Dysln)
  3. Alternative formats to consider for the Devfile (Andreas (Ida))
  4. Base runtime image Context, PR (Sergii Kabashniuk)
  5. Deprecate namespace strategies other than "per user" (Sergii Kabashniuk)
  6. Switching CRD to V1 (Anatolii)
  7. Switching from master to main branch for che-operator , che-machine-exec and chectl repositories, issue (Flavius)
  8. Dashboard as separate deployment, PR (Serhii Leshchenko)

Minutes: Google doc

29-March-2021

Agenda

  1. Hosted Che Blog Post (Brian King)
  2. Multi-root workspaces are now enabled by default (Florent B)
  3. The new dashboard click party - contact Serhii to participate (Serhii L)
  4. Migration to eclipse-che org
  5. AWS, Cloud 9, docker compose (Ida Olsen)
  6. Docs survey (Fabrice FT)
  7. Removal of che-server and che-parent maven artifacts (Nick B)

Minutes: Google doc

15-March-2021

Agenda

  1. Migration che-operator and che-machine-exec repositories to the eclipse-che organization #18995. (Flavius/Anatolii)
  2. What time zone we should use for the Che community meeting (Roman)
  3. Leftover nightly/RC/test jobs on CI Centos #19287 (Nick)
  4. Nightly vs next tag #19291 (Serhii L)

Minutes: Google doc

1-March-2021

Agenda

  1. Blog: Hosted Che / che.openshift.io EOL & Introduction to workspaces.openshift.com, Google doc. (Ilya Buziuk)
  2. codecov annotations in Pull Requests, example, che-dev discussion (Florent)

Minutes: Google doc

22-February-2021

Agenda

  1. che.openshift.io March 1st EOL reminder (Ilya Buziuk)
  2. master ---> main branch renaming in all che Repositories (Florent)
  3. Container wrapper for Eclipse Dash License Tool che-incubator/dash-licenses (Serhii L)
  4. JIRA vs. GH issues - which is a better issue tracker, reporting tool, query tool, sprint planner, and why? (Nick, Eric, Radim)
  5. Migration of repositories to a new organization. How? When? (Anatolii)

Minutes: Google doc

15-February-2021

Agenda

  1. Che and multiarch containers (Serhii L)
  2. Hosted Che EOL - March 1st. Register to the new SaaS - Developer Sandbox / workspaces.openshift.com (Ilya Buziuk)

Minutes: Google doc

1-February-2021

Agenda

  1. Release process update (Nick, Mykhailo)
  2. [Discussion] Openshift App in eclipse org (Flavius L./ Radim)
  3. Third party gh action functions: are they safe to use? Should we fork into a eclipse/che-gh-actions repo? (Mykhailo)
  4. Maven artifacts: can we deprecate these and eventually stop publishing them in favour of che-server image in Quay? (Nick)
  5. Camel devfiles are not able to start because of OOMKilled since 7.25.0 https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/18939 (Ilya)
  6. OpenVSX removed some VS Code extensions due to lack of publisher agreement https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/18933 (Florent)
  7. Happy path broken few times last week (Florent)

Minutes: Google doc

25-January-2021

Agenda

  1. Separate chectl version and Eclipse Che version to deploy https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/18022 (Mykola)

Minutes: Google doc

18-January-2021

Agenda

  1. Linkless build https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/16852 (Thomas)
  2. 7.24.2 release status https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/18792 (Ilya)

Minutes: Google doc

11-January-2021

Agenda

  1. Broken 7.23.2 - workaround - could we have done differently? https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/18746 (Sun)
  2. Interchangeable plugin registry -> should we keep older released versions of machine-exec, che-theia etc. ? See https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/16258 and https://issues.redhat.com/browse/CRW-1387 (Sun)
  3. What is the state with Dashboard Next replacement? (Serhii L)

Minutes: Google doc

7-December-2020

Agenda

  1. Dashboard Next promotion plan https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/16628 (Serhii Leshchenko)
  2. Are we going to release Eclipse Che 7.24 in Christmas Holidays time 30 Dec 2020? (Dmytro Nochevnov)
  3. Advent of Code with Che https://github.com/che-incubator/advent-of-code-2020 (Mario Loriedo)
  4. Eclipse Che plugin-registry (plug-ins definition moved to a single file: https://github.com/eclipse/che-plugin-registry/blob/master/che-theia-plugins.yaml ) (Florent)

Minutes: Google doc

30-November-2020

Agenda

  1. Is the latest only suggested version for all plugins? (Serhii Leshchenko)
  2. Upstream PostgreSQL docker image https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/18292 (Sergii Kabashniuk)
  3. Specifying memoryRequest, cpuRequest, cpuLimit to the plugins https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/18485 (Ilya Buziuk)
  4. Update on the cobol debugger and closed source vs code extensions (Mario Loriedo)
  5. Advent of code with Che (Mario Loriedo)

Minutes: Google doc

23-November-2020

Agenda

  1. Should we accept closed source plugins into Che (Eric)
  2. Factories left-nav menu items is hidden by default https://github.com/eclipse/che-dashboard/pull/108 (Serhii Leshchenko)
  3. Services hostname usage instead of ingresses for inter-components communications https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/17644 (Anatolii)
  4. Eclipse Che Server release automatically generated PRs. Can be merged by codeowners (e.g. https://github.com/eclipse/che/pull/18418) (Mykhailo)
  5. Dashboard + Dashboard next are moved to a separate dashboard for helm chart with PRs: https://github.com/eclipse/che/pull/18093 + https://github.com/eclipse/che/pull/18332 (Serhii Leshchenko)

Minutes: Google doc

16-November-2020

Agenda

  1. List of images for airgap / image puller: a task for chectl? https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/18378 (Fabrice Flore-Thébault)
  2. Deprecation announcement for ssh key service, image pull secrets in user’s profile (Sergii Kabashniuk)
  3. Promote Dashboard Next https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/18348 (Serhii Leshchenko)

Minutes: Google doc

9-November-2020

Agenda

  1. Remove regular team updates (Artem)

Minutes: Google doc

2-November-2020

Agenda

  1. Separate issue severity and priority into two separate labeling schemes https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/18160 (Eric)
  2. Happy Path test PR check workflow changes related to rerun of tests (Dmytro)
  3. https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/18260, https://blog.travis-ci.com/2020-11-02-travis-ci-new-billing (Florent)

Minutes: Google doc

26-October-2020

Agenda

  1. Che plugin registry: keep only latest (and optional next) versions https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/18183 (Florent( + Eric))
  2. Precreated namespaces demo https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qyHfgkp9m7k&feature=youtu.be&ab_channel=MichalVala (Sergii Kabashniyk)

Minutes: Google doc

19-October-2020

Agenda

  1. EclipseCon, Let’s meet at the RedHat developers booth Chat. https://eclipsecon.app.swapcard.com/event/eclipsecon-2020/exhibitor/RXhoaWJpdG9yXzE3MjIxMw%3D%3D (Sun)
  2. Triaging: P1 or P2 for enhancement issues? https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/18114#issuecomment-709421978 (Sun - Eric)
  3. Youtube channel (Sergii Kabashniuk)

Minutes: Google doc

12-October-2020

Agenda

  1. Autosave issue (with nightly version) https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/18096 (Sun).

Minutes: Google doc

5-October-2020

Agenda

  1. Running VS Code tasks as remote tasks - PoC https://youtu.be/BUVObxKON3Y (Roman)
  2. Plan about moving dashboard out of Che Server deployment https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/17802#issuecomment-703571556 (Serhii Leshchenko)

Minutes: Google doc

28-September-2020

Agenda

  1. IntelliJ as Che editor demo (Florent)
  2. Eclipse Che devfile/Git SSH flow E2E tests have been broken after recent update of che-theia https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/17973 (Dmytro Nochevnov)
  3. Restoring Intellij Idea preferences after workspace restart demo (Vladyslav)

Minutes: Google doc

21-September-2020

Agenda

  1. Team updates

Minutes: Google doc

14-September-2020

Agenda

  1. Updated link to this doc + youtube brand account being recovered (Sun)
  2. New PR checklist in the PR template (Mario)
  3. Dashboard customization https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/15778#issuecomment-691017450 (Serhii Leshchenko)
  4. Typescript-dto release update (Mykhailo Kuznietsov)

Minutes: Google Doc

7-September-2020

Agenda

  1. Issue Triage - Publishing Lists (Brian King)
  2. Fix calendar event link to that meeting: use eclipse public calendar? (Sun)
  3. Update Che GH repo description - https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/17666 (Sun)
  4. The new keycloak theme to set a username field to readonly https://github.com/eclipse/che/pull/17780 (Anatolii)
  5. 7.18.1 release status, blocker #17787 (Anatolii, Mykhailo)

Minutes: Google Doc

31-August-2020

Agenda

  1. Poll renaming ws-master https://twitter.com/eclipse_che/status/1295668455354630144 (Sun)
  2. Removed WorkspaceConfig related REST API && Java 11 features for Che server in 7.19 (Sergii Kabashniuk)
  3. Doc links in chectl / crwctl projects
  4. PR to fix doc links: #chectl (Anatolii)
  5. Docs now built using Antora (Fabrice)
  6. we have missing files in our ‘contribute’ badges https://che.openshift.io/factory/resources/factory-contribute.svg any idea what’s wrong? (Sun)
  7. Introduce the preferable order for top-level Devfile fields https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/17726 (Serhii)

Recording: https://youtu.be/dn7400XKH9o

Minutes: Google Doc

24-August-2020

No meeting.

17-August-2020

Agenda

  1. Co-editing GSoC
  2. If no topic next week on Monday, call will be post-poned until next week
  3. Teams update

Recording: https://youtu.be/MzA4Pbyqznk

Minutes: Google Doc

10-August-2020

Agenda

  1. Team updates

Recording: https://youtu.be/bgtsbB4u_AE

Minutes: Google Doc

3-August-2020

Agenda

  1. kind/release label trial https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues?q=label%3Akind%2Frelease (Sun)
  2. Golang apps CI/CD, Github action with multi-CPU architecture support and multi docker file support. Example https://github.com/che-incubator/configbump/pull/5 (Sergii Kabashniuk)
  3. CoEditing - GSoC update (Rijul/Sun)

Recording: https://youtu.be/4iII9Sd74Dw

Minutes: Google Doc

27-July-2020

Agenda

  1. Welcome to Brian King (Brian King/Sun)
  2. Eradicate problematic language (Florent)
  3. Definition of done / New PR template (Florent)
  4. 7.16.0 is still not available in the community operators - https://github.com/operator-framework/community-operators/pull/2016#issuecomment-662403813 (Ilya)

Recording: https://youtu.be/pnNrgYbR-O0

Minutes: Google Doc

20-July-2020

Agenda

  1. Could we have a label for release issues like that one https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/17428 ? and keep the list of PR/issues updated. (Sun)

Recording: https://youtu.be/xvDwFm0TVKk

Minutes: Google Doc

13-July-2020

Agenda

  1. Rest API methods with WorkspaceConfig deprecation. (Sergii Kabashniuk)
    • Persistent Factory API
    • Workspace API with WorkspaceConfig
    • Project API
  2. Didact … what’s next ? https://github.com/eclipse/che-plugin-registry/pull/459#issue comment-653563781 (Sun)
  3. The fixed ‘eclipse-che’ namespace for the Eclipse Che deployment via operatorHub and chectl #17187 (Ilya)

Recording: https://youtu.be/VZCvi6kOg4k

Minutes: Google Doc

6-July-2020

Agenda

  1. Default image pulling strategy (Sergii Kabashniuk)
  2. Automatic stale issue closing in GitHub (Eric Williams)
  3. Co-editing GSoC weekly update (Rijul Saini)

Recording: https://youtu.be/DEr1Mr2172E

Minutes: Google Doc

29-June-2020

Agenda

  1. How to run a Spring Web MVC project using Eclipse Che We are planning to use Eclipse Che for our organization (200+ employees) and we are currently using Netbeans IDE. (Sohel Shaikh)
  2. Does external DB requires external keycloak - https://github.com/eclipse/che-docs/pull/1283 ? (Ilya Buziuk)
  3. Che-in-Che devfile not up to date? https://github.com/eclipse/che-theia/tree/master/devfiles (Sun)
  4. Co-editing GSoC weekly update (Rijul)

Recording: https://youtu.be/wFHgD47LGN8

Minutes: Google Doc

22-June-2020

Agenda

  1. Che server Java 8 sources compatibility https://github.com/eclipse/che/pull/17194 (Sergii Kabashniuk)
  2. GSoC - Coediting weekly update (Rijul/Sun)
  3. Question: do we have a guide/doc to contribute to https://github.com/che-dockerfiles? (how/who to ask to push to quay.io, create a repo etc ….) (Sun).
  4. https://paris2020.hack-commit-pu.sh/ virtual next saturday: who would like to help me? (Sun)
  5. Using an OCI registry as a Devfile registry (Mario)
  6. Che-docs move to Antora. Discover it on Hosted Che: https://che.openshift.io/factory?url=https://github.com/themr0c/che-docs/tree/antora (Fabrice)

Recording: https://youtu.be/3luHdXNHQok

Minutes: Google Doc

15-June-2020

Agenda

  1. Weekly update: GSoC live collaboration (Rijul/Sun) (moved to last topic)
  2. Che server runtime Java 11 (Sergii Kabashniuk)
  3. Single User Eclipse Che - does the community need it? (Dmytro Nochevnov)
  4. Team updates

Recording https://youtu.be/UyJUP6dS43Y

Minutes: Google Doc

8-June-2020

Agenda:

  1. Java 11 for Che Server any blockers? (Sergii Kabashniuk)
  2. Single-host on OpenShift - status (Michal Vala)
  3. Weekly update: GSoC live collaboration (Sun/Rijul)
  4. Factory URL params/Branch inference (Jay Flowers)

Recording https://youtu.be/2qE-uLHj1ws

Minutes: Google Doc

25-May-2020

Agenda:

  1. Should we allow users to have no-TLS mode in Eclipse Che deployed to minikube | openshift? https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/16302 (Dmytro)

Recording https://youtu.be/OW27UHEiuWc

Minutes: Google Doc

18-May-2020

Agenda:

  1. User Devfiles (Sergii Kabashniuk)
  2. Che6 factories and workspace deprecation. (Sergii Kabashniuk)
  3. Deprecating organization functionality at least until it's not reviewed and adapted (Sergii Leshchenko)

Recording https://youtu.be/tqhz39I5y8M

Minutes: Google Doc

11-May-2020

Agenda:

  1. demo about available persistent volume strategies (Maksym Shaposhnyk)
  2. Updates on : Use docker images instead of maven artifact to deliver che-dashboard and che-loader (Sergii Kabashniuk, Nick??)
  3. User Devfiles epic https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/16875 Call to participate. (Sergii Kabashniuk)
  4. Codewind performance monitoring demo (Toby Corbin)

Recording: https://youtu.be/GJ7fFsfBfbo

Minutes: Google Doc

4-May-2020

Agenda:

  1. Issue triage for every other Friday? The spot is empty atm - what about the community triage day? (Ilya)
  2. Demo Che4z (Lukas)
  3. Che server on Java 11 updates. Candidate for the base image. (Sergii Kabashniuk)
  4. Let’s make single host the default (Mario)

Recording: https://youtu.be/qaR8XYLZ8hw

Minutes: Google Doc

27-April-2020

Agenda:

  1. Improve ease of build / speed of release of Che Server and dependencies (Nick, Mykhailo, Sergii K)
  2. Z-stream release cadence (Nick, Anatoli)
  3. There will be a 7.12.1 release this week, please add any blockers you have to the issue. (Eric)
  4. Sprint Release Theme Proposal (Eric)
  5. Java 11 for Che server (Sergii Kabashniuk)

Recording: https://youtu.be/5JNiuQ-vg-A

Minutes: Google Doc

6-April-2020

Agenda:

  1. Demo: Smartface Mobile Development IDE on Che (Smartface Team)
  2. License check for kubernetes-image-puller (planned to be contributed to the Eclipse Foundation but not clear where exactly - new-project, sub-project, part of ecdtools). How can we get the initial review without CQ: https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/16321#issuecomment-608559780 (Ilya)
  3. The state of 7.11.0 release? (Ilya)
  4. Cancel the next call ? as it is public holliday in several countries ? FR, BE, CZ, DE, IE, UK (Sun)

Recording: https://youtu.be/h0qtw3816P4

Minutes: Google Doc

30-March-2020

Agenda:

  1. Che release process: skip RC, go directly to R. Fail faster and get more releases out in 1/5th the time (1 day, not 4-5) (Nick)
  2. Youtube channel for video recordings, demos, training materials. (Sergii Kabashniuk)
  3. Dashboard Next direction. Existing POC of the new UD (Oleksii Orel)
  4. Looking for volunteers (NA and APAC time zones in particular) to participate to RH Virtual Summit - Community central: Goal: answer to questions related to Che in Chat rooms (Sun).
  5. Team updates

Recording: https://youtu.be/cpMTKGO02Nc

Minutes: Google Doc

23-March-2020

Agenda:

  1. Che commands as Theia tasks, what are the next steps? Following 15540#issuecomment-599462786 and 12709#issuecomment-601769959 (Sun)
  2. Che release candidate testing flow (Mykhailo)
    • what do we do about unreleased operator and chectl (7.9.2) when we need them to test che 7.9.2.RC bits?
    • Currently use nightly/next but if there are breaking changes in master, that won’t work (as we discovered during 7.9.2 / 7.11 last week)
    • Could we do RC builds for operator and chectl too?
    • Or just release them completely (full R, no RC pre-release) like we do for che-theia and registries?
    • It has been decided to start providing chectl:rc and che-operator:rc (dedicated issue).
  3. Updates on progress made on the implementation of CoEditing Skeleton in Eclipse Che 7 (Live collaboration) - Quick Demo (Rijul/Sun)
  4. How to use Image digests instead of tags in time of Eclipse Che deployment by chectl? It seems we support it now but I can’t find the doc. (Dmytro)
  5. Docs PR (Sergii Kabashniuk)
  6. Area labels and triage instructions updated (Mario)

Recording: https://youtu.be/2xWpUChqHr8

Minutes: Google Doc

16-March-2020

Agenda:

  • Bug in exposing route (Sun)
  • Consider launching Happy Path tests on others repos except Che, like workspace-loader, dashboard (is not moved yet but eventually it will be soon) (Serhii Leshchenko)
  • When adding new che-theia api should the new api always be added to @eclipse-che/plugin API or should it be split into its own module depending on the contents. Relevant PR: https://github.com/eclipse/che-theia/pull/597 (Josh Pinkney)
  • Ensuring non-codeowner contributions are included in releases (Angel Misevski)
  • Team updates

Recording: https://youtu.be/DsxEwg-2-e0

Minutes: Google Doc

9-March-2020

Agenda:

  • 2 meetings in the calendar - can we remove one of them? (Ilya)
  • Team updates

Recording: https://youtu.be/HWNQShe69_0

Minutes: Google Doc

2-March-2020

Agenda:

  • Selenium tests. Maintenance costs. Sergii Kabashniuk, Radim Hopp
  • 7.9.0 issues caught on Hosted Che staging: Ilya Buziuk
    • Workspace stop time increased significantly after the 7.9.0 update #16200 
    • LS for default PHP stacks not working #16196
  • Release 7.9.1 - Sergii Kabashniuk

Minutes: Google Doc

24-February-2020

Agenda:

  • Move this to HackMD.io or eventually Che (Sun)
  • Taking notes of this call next week (Florent on PTO next week) -> mario ? (Florent - 1mn)
  • Google Summer of Code discussion (Sun)
  • Status of 7.9.0 release (Ilya)
  • Users branches survey (Mario)

Minutes: Google Doc

17-February-2020

Recording

https://youtu.be/ye-3Tvp7oQs

Notes and Minutes

Your work is new, &/or noteworthy! (Nick) AI: all committees, contributors, users, customers, support, docs

Che release process update (Nick) AI: release owners & prod team

Topic branches in private forks - (Nick) AI: committees and contributors

(vs. cluttering the origin repos & forgetting to take out your trash): best practices/least effort. Discussion

  • Best way for “single contributions” should be in private forks/branches
  • Only if really need (like contributing with several people)
  • Sergii: why we should enforce that: no technical reason
  • → use forks as much as possible but try to avoid branches in the repository.
  • Mykola: what is the problem if users clean up branches after the merge ?
  • Mario: Would avoid to see branches
  • Matter of taste, so probably we would need a vote ?
  • Sun: More and more contributors : hard to follow
  • AI: @Sun: survey to follow-up

New committers recently approved Who's next ? (Nick) AI: contributors?

  • Tom George
  • Eric Williams
  • Yana Hontyk

Who will be next? :D -> Flavius

PR check jobs migrated to ci.centos.org (Radim)

  • Who should be in the admin list?
  • Who should be the committers
  • Radim will provide a link on how to do that for internal Red Hat people.
  • For now, could start with https://github.com/orgs/eclipse/teams/ecd-che-committers/members
  • See if we can automatically sync it or if continue manually
  • AI: @Radim: how to trigger the test again, how to reach ppl if there is an issue in the check, etc.

Using digests rather then tags for image references and commit hash rather then master branch for samples (Mario)

Promote builtin-related plugin issues to P1 (gattytto)

https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/16057 Postponed discussion (mic issue from gattytto)

Team update:

Eclipse Codewind (Public holiday on 2/17 in Toronto, no attendance)

  • Codewind 0.10.0 currently on track to GA on Feb. 18.
  • 0.10.0 needs to stay on Che 7.5.1.  Currently blocked by #15658before Codewind can move up to a newer version of Che.  More background info can be found on Codewind issue #2203

Hosted Che

  • Adapt Hosted Che 'k8s-image-puller' to the upstream needs #15385 [WIP]
  • Backup and Disaster Recovery documentation #14240 [WIP]
  • Enabling telemetry on Hosted Che [DONE]

Platform

Deploy

  • [Troubleshooting capabilities] Checking minimal version of k8s/openshift/helm
  • Some changes in `chectl` to be able to deprecate `deploy_che` in future

Controller

Languages

  • [DONE] Update Debugger for Java and Language support for Java to latest#15560

  • [WIP] Working on enabling Find All references extension

  • [WIP] VS Code API tests (PR Check) che-theia/pull/597

  • [WIP]  Some CRW plugin/image/devfile: started camel-k devfile

  • Doc air-gap procedures

  • [WIP]  npm + global doc by thomas, gradle

Plugins

Editors

  • Switched Che Theia to using VS Code’s built-in extensions for grammars/syntax highlighting instead of Eclipse Theia’s Textmate grammars che-theia#618
  • More secure Theia WebViews, on a separate origin che-theia#591
  • Working on upgrading Monaco editor in Eclipse Theia from 0.18.0 to 0.19.3 theia#6900

Devex:

Documentation

QE

  • All QE jobs moved, now fine-tuning them.

Che CI & Build Process Updates (Prod Team)

  • Trying a new Che release process for 7.9: see above

Attendees:

  1. Florent Benoit (taking notes)
  2. Sun Tan
  3. Artem Zatsarynnyi
  4. Beau Morley
  5. David Festal
  6. Dmytro Nochenov
  7. Fabrice Flore-Thébault
  8. Esteban Basso aka gattyto
  9. Maksym Shaposhnyk
  10. Mario Loriedo
  11. Michal Vala
  12. Mykola Morhun
  13. Oleksii Orel
  14. Radim Hopp
  15. Rick Wagner
  16. Roman Nikitenko
  17. Sergii Kabashniuk
  18. Serhii Leshchenko
  19. Thomas Maeder
  20. Vitaliy Gulyy
  21. Vladyslav Zhukovskyi

10-February-2020

Recording

https://youtu.be/KC8ZuhTzeLk

Notes and Minutes

Triage proposal (Sun)

  • Sun presenting proposal:
    • link to the slide-deck
  • Priority might differ based on developer’s feeling
  • Issue affecting dogfooding might have a low severity while as user it might impact them with a higher priority.

Dashboard / own repo (sergii)

Move the dashboard to its own github repository https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/15266

  • May solve issue about using java for one project and typescript for another one
  • Split dashboard in its own repository (and probably workspace-loader)
  • Needs to wait 7.10 release for that (after CRW 2.1)
  • Maybe we could move che-server to another repository as well (and keep only che as being an assembly)

Documentation about che server environment variables

https://www.eclipse.org/che/docs/pages/che-7/administration-guide/ref_configuring-system-variables.html Documentation about che server environment variables.

  • Do you have feedback on this new page ?

Definition of workspace sharing

  • Sharing : More than just sharing the editor. It can include the ssh stuff, tokens, etc.
  • Maybe investigate “pair programming” and drop the direct share.
  • Option could be to disable some security injection (no ssh, no token, etc) in that mode.
  • Proper messaging + document what is doing “sharing”

Che docs team collaboration

  • Good job on collaboration between platform and doc team but:
  • Some PRs may be delayed since a long time without any feedback (stay there for too long)
  • → Try to keep PR as small as possible to do a better review
  • Will create a new che docs channel on mattermost to ping Doc people.
  • https://mattermost.eclipse.org/eclipse/channels/che-docs

Teams updates:

Eclipse Codewind (Elson can’t attend this week so just provide update in here)

Hosted Che

  • Adapt Hosted Che 'k8s-image-puller' to the upstream needs #15385
  • Backup and Disaster Recovery documentation #14240
  • Enabling telemetry on Hosted Che

Platform

Deploy

  • [Troubleshooting capabilities] Checking minimal version of k8s/openshift/helm
  • Some changes in `chectl` to be able to deprecate `deploy_che` in future

Controller

Languages

  • [DONE] Upgrade vscode-xml plugin to 0.10.1 #15592
  • [WIP] Working in fixing Find All references (for typescript plugin)
  • [WIP] VS Code API tests (PR Check) che-theia/pull/597
  • [WIP] Some CRW plugin/image/devfile: started camel-k devfile
  • Doc air-gap procedures
    • [DONE] Maven/Go/dotnet
    • [WIP] npm + global doc by thomas

Plugins

  • Concluded face-to-face meetings in Cherkasy, travel back for non-Cherkasy teammates
  • Opened PR for Vale plugin addition to the registry
  • Opened PR for OpenShift connector authentication work
  • Discussions and PRs opened for task clicking delay issue

Editors

Devex:

Documentation

QE

  • All jobs moved, now fine-tuning them.

Che CI & Build Process Updates (Prod Team)

  • No Che process updates this week
  • CRW 2.1 Quay images updated to Che 7.8, but having problems deploying w/ crwctl. Cannot open a workspace: could be related to upstream che-operator issue pull/166

Attendees:

  1. Florent Benoit (taking notes)
  2. Anatolii Bazko
  3. Angel Misevski
  4. Beau Morley
  5. David Festal
  6. Eric Williams
  7. Fabrice Flore-Thébault
  8. Gennady Azarenkov
  9. Ihor Vinokur
  10. Ilya Buziuk
  11. Josh Pinkney
  12. Lukas Krejci
  13. Mario Loriedo
  14. Martha Benitez
  15. Mykhailo Kuznetsov
  16. Nick Boldt
  17. Oleksii Orel
  18. Radim Hopp
  19. Rick Wagner
  20. Sergii Kabashniuk
  21. Serhii Leshchenko
  22. Sopot Cela
  23. Stevan LeMeur
  24. Sun Tan
  25. Thomas George
  26. Viktor Kuznietsov
  27. Vitaliy Gulyy
  28. Vladyslav Zhukovskyi

3-February-2020

Recording

https://youtu.be/rQ1521HkRhc

Notes and Minutes

Making the call weekly?

  • Before we had one internal meeting at Red Hat and Community call
  • Want to merge two of them and will then get a weekly meeting

Update of owners of the different components of Eclipse Che

  • It also includes all repositories like che-plugin-registry, che-theia, etc.
  • What is happening if a committer which is not a codeowner approve a PR then it’s merged and it breaks !
  • Make enhancement on the template to really test the PR and not because they like the idea
  • Want to have an agreement this week so we can decide what to do on all the projects in a common way.

Teams updates

Eclipse Codewind

  • Codewind 0.8.0 Jan 23 GAed
  • Presented a talk on Codewind and Che on Devconf.cz conference in Czech Republic
  • Next: Work on adding Codewind as part of the devfile registry, will create PR for adding Codewind to the Che plugin registry

Hosted Che

Platform

Deploy

  • Finalizing POC TLS by default (created a PR #476)
  • Continue working on improving installation capabilities

Controller

Actual status of sprint can be found at https://github.com/eclipse/che/projects/16

Languages

  • Call hierarchy API
  • Enable “References View”
  • VS Code API tests (PR Check)
  • Some CRW plugin/image work
  • Doc air-gap procedures

Plugins

Editors

Devex:

Documentation

QE

  • che-bot token is finally on ci.centos.org
  • migrating remaining jobs from ci.codenvycorp.com

Che CI & Build Process Updates (Prod Team)

  • 3 of the 9 build stages scripted by Prod Team w/ RELEASE.md docs & used for Che 7.8.0 release; the rest of the stages are documented too, with 3 more scripted. Also have an updated template for creating release issues so it’s easier to track owner/status & verify artifacts are live. Remaining 3 stages will be scripted in future (requires Nexus integration).
  • Sprint 179 plan

Attendees

  1. Florent Benoit (taking notes)
  2. Anatolii Bazko
  3. Andrew Mak
  4. Angel Misevski
  5. Beau Morley
  6. David Festal
  7. Elson Yuen
  8. Gennady Azarenkov
  9. Ilya Buziuk
  10. Jag
  11. Jonathan West
  12. Joshua Pinkney
  13. Mario Loriedo
  14. Martha Benitez
  15. Mykhailo Kuznetsov
  16. Mykola Morhun
  17. Nick Boldt
  18. Oleksii Orel
  19. Radim Hopp
  20. Rajiv
  21. Sakib Hasan
  22. Sergii kabashniuk
  23. Serhii Leshchenko
  24. Sun Tan
  25. Thomas Maeder
  26. Tibor Dancs

20-January-2020

Recording

https://youtu.be/1U_ZQ_th5hc

Notes and Minutes

Update from teams

Elson:

  • Codewind team. GA, Jan 23 v0.8.0
  • Added support Helm 3 - removal of the insecure non-default tiller
  • Planning to propose some changes on devfile definition, e.g. volume definition, commands and actions

Mario:

  • Want to have a list of teams on Wiki
  • Want to have a list of areas on Wiki (need a quick update before assigning teams and labels)
  • Want to avoid to set ‘team/**’ label
  • If someone is starting to work on the issue, it needs to be assigned to someone

Sun:

  • new proposal about issue triaging at next call

Attendees

  1. Florent Benoit (taking notes)
  2. Andrew Mak
  3. Beau Morley
  4. Carl Anderson
  5. Elson Yuen
  6. Jag
  7. Jasper
  8. John Collier
  9. Jonathan West
  10. Josh Pinkney
  11. Mario Loriedo
  12. Martha Benitez
  13. Mykola Morhun
  14. Rajiv
  15. Sarah I
  16. Sun Tan
  17. Thomas Maeder
  18. Travis Wang

6-January-2020

Recording

https://youtu.be/5dBdz2mXlyo

Notes and Minutes

Update from Che teams (Sun)

  • RH Language team, working on Quarkus extensions (Thomas)

New teams at Red Hat (Florent)

https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1WHBFZ1q7ym2jQ2hersSakF48saMrk6v0eEmTvwMfXM0/edit#slide=id.g6d3396950e_2_0

Web Browsers compatibility improvements

  • Better handling with Firefox with like font issues, etc
  • If you have problems, please report issues
  • Safari: not yet supported, issue on login.

Update on troubleshooting installation and getting logs (Stevan)

TLS by default (Stevan)

Same experience than when using final product

Better log message when workspace is not starting (Stevan)

Much more easier to get the log and get the root cause (still in progress)

Attendees

  1. Florent Benoit (taking notes)
  2. Andrew Mak
  3. Beau Morley
  4. Fabrice Flore-Thébault
  5. John Collier
  6. Keith
  7. Martha Benitez
  8. Nick Boldt
  9. Rick Wagner
  10. Stevan LeMeur
  11. Sun Tan
  12. Thomas Mader

9-December-2019

Recording

https://youtu.be/QJnAFsUs43Q

Notes and Minutes

Update from Che teams

  • Goal is to give more update from each che team from Red Hat
  • Being more open to give status

Refactor of the plug-in broker by Angel: PR https://github.com/eclipse/che-plugin-broker/pull/80 Issue: https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/14494

Benefit: allow to work on each side of the broker separately, and logic could be extracted and used in other places like plugin-registry.etc -1500 lines dropped after refactoring

Question by Tim: does it affect performance ?

Very easy to improve the downloading process. Workspace starting twice in a row shouldn’t download new stuff anymore Some logic should be extracted to plug-in service to be a service always available instead of starting/stopping stuff.

CodeReady Workspaces 2.0 shipped and availability

  • Huge topic for Red Hat teams
  • Installation in restricted environments
  • All has been developed upstream so AirGap mode is also available in Eclipse Che 7

UXD work - update

Attendees

  1. Andrew Mak
  2. Angel Misevski
  3. Beau Morley
  4. Elson Yuen
  5. Fabrice Flore-Thébault
  6. Florent Benoit (taking notes)
  7. Ilya Buziuk
  8. John Collier
  9. Martha Benitez
  10. Mykola Morhun
  11. Nick Boldt
  12. Oleksandr Andriienko
  13. Rajiv
  14. Rick Wagner
  15. Stevan LeMeur
  16. Serhii
  17. Sun Tan
  18. Tim deBoer
  19. Travis Wang

25-November-2019

Recording

https://youtu.be/c8X3khqYEaU

Notes and Minutes

Code Owner - review

  • Many codeowners but usually other ppl review PR
  • Busy people and then it doesn’t work as it seems to be a slow process for external contributors.
  • How to move forward ?
    • Update codeowners
    • Responsibility of committers ?
  • Conclusion: Postpone : wait new team re-org of Red Hat teams and discuss it after

Status of Che4Z

Clarification of use of VSCode plugin in Che Workspaces

  • VSCode marketplace term of use does not allow end-users to use direct pointers.
  • But we can pull from a running workspace and it’s not compliant with TOS
  • Plugin registry shouldn’t have links to the marketplace as well
  • Note that some VS Code extensions also can’t be run outside of Microsoft Product based on their license.

Chatroom snapshot

Stevan LeMeur - 5:03 PM Agenda for today : https://docs.google.com/document/d/1duuavOXVAJNbzU8nIltraDKx5YH2Z34Qwx7AeLnhhzU/edit Stevan LeMeur - 5:03 PM looks empty right now :) Stevan LeMeur - 5:03 PM feel free to take 2min to add items you would like to discuss Ilya Buziuk - 5:05 PM shouldn't we review codeowners after teams reorg? Ilya Buziuk - 5:07 PM There is a mailing thread Updating Eclipse Che codeowners started by Angel Stevan LeMeur - 5:11 PM https://www.eclipse.org/che/docs/che-7/eclipse-che4z/ Stevan LeMeur - 5:16 PM https://github.com/eclipse/che-plugin-registry/blob/master/v3/plugins/redhat/java8/0.50.0/meta.yaml

Attendees

  1. Andre Mak
  2. Beau Morley
  3. Elson Yuen
  4. Florent Benoit (taking notes) (thank you!)
  5. Fabrice Flore-Thébault
  6. Ilya Buziuk
  7. Jag
  8. John Collier
  9. Joshua Pinkney
  10. Martha Benitez
  11. Mykola Morhun
  12. Oleksandr Andriienko
  13. Oleksii Orel
  14. Rajiv
  15. Sergii Kabashniuk
  16. Serhii Leshchenko
  17. Stevan Le Meur
  18. Sun Tan
  19. Travis Wang
  20. Vitaliy Gulyy

28-October-2019

Recording

https://youtu.be/7nQq_LclZ3I

Notes and Minutes

1. Feedback from Eclipse Con Europe

  • Feedback from John, Mario and Florent that were present
  • Eclipse Theia day
    • Roadmap about Eclipse Che @ Theia projects
  • Good conversations with community
  • Typefox want to provide alternate VS Code marketplace
    • Discussed if Che metadata would fit inside this model
  • Tim joined the meeting as well
    • Fit to scale (LSP), Workspaces as kubernete resources (David’s talk)
  • John: Including codewind plug-ins in Eclipse Che plugin registries.

2. Release 7.3.1

  • Patch release (tuesday)
  • Will be used in Red Hat CodeReady Workspaces

Attendees:

  1. Andrew Mak
  2. Angel Misevski
  3. Beau Morley
  4. Carl Anderson
  5. Elson Yuen
  6. Fabrice Flore-Thébault
  7. Florent Benoit
  8. Ilya Buziuk
  9. Jag
  10. John Collier
  11. Mario Loriedo
  12. Mykola Morhun
  13. Oleksandr Andriienko
  14. Oleksii Orel
  15. Roman Nikitenko
  16. Serhii Leshchenko
  17. Steven Hung
  18. Tim deBoer
  19. Travis

14-October-2019

Recording

https://youtu.be/4ah2OENYxaQ

Notes and Minutes

1. Che Onboarding Concepts - Intro to User Experience Design (Beau Morley)

Attendees:

  1. Beau Morley
  2. Carl Anderson
  3. Dave Neary
  4. Fabrice Flore-Thébault
  5. Florent Benoit
  6. Ilya Buziuk
  7. Radomir Ludva
  8. Rick Wagner
  9. Sergii Kabashniuk
  10. Stevan LeMeur
  11. Sun Tan
  12. Thomas Maeder

30-September-2019

Recording

https://youtu.be/XCr_6LOR6Rs

Notes and Minutes

1. Triaging issue (Sun)

  • Explain the process in the wiki
  • Sun: not clear enough for external people how the triaging is done
  • AI: Mario will take the action item

2. Maybe we should have some youtube channel with video tutorials about Eclipse Che (Olexandr)

  • Sun: anybody could send videos
  • Sun: Channel could be listed somewhere -> to the website and readme: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChhI38Rvs5q1-JmmULHRiSw
  • Link published on the website ?
  • Gorkem: What are the steps to upload content to youtube channel ?
    • Open github issue + add label ‘website’ on this issue

3. Definition of Done (Gorkem):

  • Definition of done will be done by updating the templates and all reviewers/code owners need to be responsible before merging the PR to ensure that the doc is ready and that QE endorsed enhancements/modifications
    • If you’re reviewing a work, you’re testing it → as responsible as the author.
    • Should be easy to test and review a PR
      • Enhancements to have workspace allowing to test a given PR (not there yet but in next plans with a one-click button)
    • Theia community is expecting all reviewers test the PR before giving the approval and not provide a LGTM approval
    • AI to ? : update templates and enforce them

4. An Update about Che 7 launch (mario)

5. Demo

Che-ansible

Attendees

  1. Andrew
  2. Artem Zatsarynnyi
  3. Beau Morley
  4. Carl Anderson
  5. eyuen
  6. Florent Benoit
  7. Gorkem Ercan
  8. Jag
  9. Mario Loriedo
  10. Stevan Le Meur
  11. Martha Benitez
  12. Michal Vala
  13. Mykola Morhun
  14. Nick Boldt (joining late)
  15. Rajiv
  16. Oleksii Orel
  17. Rick Wagner
  18. Sergii Kabashniuk
  19. Stevan LeMeur
  20. Steven Hung
  21. Sun Tan
  22. Thomas Mader
  23. Viktor Kusnietsov
  24. Vitaliy Gulyy
  25. Yevhen Vydolob

16-September-2019

No topic discussed

2-September-2019

Notes and Minutes:

Closing 6months old issues (Mario):

  • https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/14401
  • Apply to all issues
  • Apply a new label if closed by bot
  • Apply a new label if pending to be closed
  • Let users to comment for one week to avoid deletion
  • Sun: Inform the user to close it by himself
  • Find a proper message to not be so rude

Release Che 7.1.0 (Mario)

  • New release will be started tomorrow
  • Two steps:
    • Day 1: plugins and devfile registries/ che-theia / machine-exec
    • Day 2 : che-server release + chectl + che operator
  • Bugfixes
  • End-to-end tests improved with improved PR
  • C++ support will be delayed
  • Ilya in charge of the release this time: ping him if needed

Attendees

  1. Oleksandr Andriienko
  2. Florent Benoit
  3. Ilya Buziuk## Recording
  4. Mario Loriedo
  5. Mykola Morhun
  6. Oleksii Orel
  7. Sun Tan
  8. Vitaliy Gulyy

Recording

https://youtu.be/IuIkup-ktww

19-August-2019

Agenda:

  • Che/Theia community day @ EclipseCon - Martha
  • GSoC update - Sun/Rijul
  • Che 7.0.0 release - Mario/Stevan
  • Status of Happy Path testing - Gorkem (Red Hat)

Agenda and minutes: Google Doc / YouTube video

5-August-2019

Agenda:

  • Propose and vote for your demo - Sun (Red Hat)
  • Open discussion: Questions/Answers about Che7 release - Sun (Red Hat)
  • Accepted talks for Eclipse Con Europe - Sun (Red Hat)

Agenda and minutes: Google Doc / YouTube video

22-July-2019

Agenda:

  • Che 7.0 GA updates- Mario (Red Hat)
  • Multiple Registries- Toby (IBM)
  • 7.1 / 7.2 milestone issues - Stevan (Red Hat)

Agenda and minutes: Google Doc / YouTube video

8-July-2019

Agenda:

  • Che7.0 GA End Game (Mario / Stevan)
  • Sharing your feedback, bugs, feature requests for Che 7 (Stevan)
  • Website Repository (Sun)
  • EclipseCon 2019 (Stevan / Martha)
  • New templates for Github issues #13777 (Florent)
  • Workspace Creation/Deletion API (Maysun)

Agenda and minutes: Google Doc / YouTube video

24-June-2019

The Che Community Call for June 24th has been cancelled.

10-June-2019:

Agenda:

  • Presenting Grafana monitoring and dashboard for che.openshift.io (Sergii Kabashniuk)
  • Process to add official workspace templates/stacks to Che (John Collier)
  • Picking up Theia changes into che-theia: Theia PR (Tim Etchells)

Agenda and minutes: Google Doc / YouTube video

27-May-2019:

Agenda:

  • Plan for Operator support (Elson)

Agenda and minutes: Google Doc

13-MAY-2019

Agenda

  • Devfile application demo (Mongo + Node app) - Serhii L and Angel
  • Devfile repos - Tim deBoer
  • Eclipse Che presence at KubeCon EU 2019 - Dave Neary

Agenda and minutes: Google Doc

29-APR-2019

Agenda

  • Question aout Kubernetes components in Devfiles (Rajiv)
  • Question about passing OIDC client secrets into Che (John)
  • Community Spotlight: IBM (Tim)

Agenda and minutes: Google Doc

15-APR-2019

Agenda

  • Overview of Che 7 (Stevan)
  • Che 7 demo (Stevan)

Agenda and minutes: Google Doc

01-APR-2019

Agenda

  • Selection of Demo videos from Che 7 beta 2
  • Community Spotlight: TU Delft students on Software Architecture

Agenda and minutes: Google Doc

18-MAR-2019

Agenda

  • Improve documentation for Extensions/Plug Ins/General Architecture
  • Future of single user Che under Docker
  • Running Che and Che workspaces as non root

Agenda and minutes: Google Doc

4-MAR-2019

Agenda

  • Community Spotlight: CloudToGo (Hongxi Ma, Di Wu)
  • Questions on the status of Eclipse Che beta and target date for GA (Barry, Jason, Rashmi)

Agenda and minutes: [Google Doc] (https://docs.google.com/document/d/1rcgy5u9kktHeTECJ2LSPEwf0oJJZh5eBGmRLoB4f9Rw/edit)

18-FEB-2019

Agenda

  • Introduction to chectl (Mario Loriedo)
  • Planning Eclipse Che event participation for 2019 (Dave Neary)

Agenda and minutes: Google Doc

4-FEB-2019

Agenda

  • Status of Che tracing and monitoring (Sergii Kabashniuk)
  • Che 7 beta status (Mario Loriedo)
  • Feedback from FOSDEM (Ilya Buziuk)

Agenda and minutes: Google Doc

21-JAN-2019

Agenda

  • Creation of generic presentation materials for Che community
  • Che 7 launch promotion

Agenda and minutes: Google Doc

14-JAN-2019

Agenda

  • Community Spotlight: Software AG

Agenda and minutes: Google Doc

10-DEC-2018

Agenda

  • CORS, Docker, GWT IDE, Java version
  • Will stacks created in Che 6.x work unchanged in Che 7?
  • CheConf 2018.2 - Summary
  • Che Incubator repository
  • Introducing new Che CLI

Agenda and minutes: Google Doc

26-NOV-2018

Agenda

  • Eclipse Cloud Development Tools Working Group
  • CheConf18.2
  • Calling for blog post about Che 7

Agenda and minutes: Google Doc

12-NOV-2018

Agenda

  • Community Spotlight: CA
  • Eclipse Cloud Development Tools Working Group
  • Docker support for Eclipse Che

Agenda and minutes: Google Doc

29-OCT-2018

Agenda

  • EclipseCon feedback
  • Docker support

Minutes: Google Doc

15-OCT-2018

Agenda

  • Community Spotlight: Progress Software
  • The current integration topics of Theia and Che (Execution Agent, LSP, WS Master…), and the way forward (roadmap)
  • Eclipse Industry Working Groups: https://www.eclipse.org/org/workinggroups - vision, goal, scope, expectation

Minutes: Google Doc

01-OCT-2018

Agenda

  • Introducing Community Spotlight
  • MySQL TCK
  • Java 11 + ws-master

Minutes are in Google Doc

17-SEP-2018

Agenda

  • Release version vs. Master version (or Che 7 / WS.Next) - QA level, Different Fix policy, Double Maintenance
  • Che WS Master bootstrapper, stdout, K8s Pod restart (refer also to WS.Next)

Minutes are in: Google Doc

3-SEP-2018

Agenda

  • Imminent switch to jdt.ls in Che 6

Minutes are in: Google Doc

20-AUG-2018

Agenda

  • Che 6.x timeline
  • Workspace restart strategy
  • Accessibility, Localization, Internationalization

Minutes are in: Google Doc

6-AUG-2018

Agenda

  • Security
  • Scalability and high availability Minutes are in: Google Doc

16-JULY-2018

Agenda

Dedicated session to:

Minutes are in: Google Doc

9-JULY-2018

Agenda

  1. Overview of Workspace.next
  2. Review of logging, tracing, analytics epics (deferred to next meeting)

Minutes are in: Google Doc

25-JUNE-2018

Agenda

  1. Feedbacks from Eclipse Con France
  2. Telemetry, Monitoring and Logging in Eclipse Che
  3. Conferences for late October: Eclipse Con EU & Che/Theia day

Minutes are in: Google Doc

11-JUNE-2018

Agenda

  1. Authentication in Next.Gen Che
  2. Eclipse Con France
  3. Eclipse Con Europe - Che & Theia contributors summit
  4. Blog topics
  5. Improving our community calls
  6. New capabilities (agents) on current Che

Minutes are in: Google Doc

28-MAY-2018

Agenda

  1. Use a single document for the Community Call Agenda
  2. PR https://github.com/eclipse/che/pull/9826
  3. Eclipse Con EU
  4. Status on Extensibility / Plugin

Minutes are in: Google Doc

Minutes 14-MAY-2018

Agenda

  1. Handling of issues with severity/blocker label
  2. RedHat Summit + KubeCon read out
  3. Release planning and community roadmap

Minutes are in: Google doc

Recording

Minutes 16-APR-2018

Agenda

  1. Consolidating the stacks
  2. Hot Update (#8547)
  3. CI for kubernetes infrastructure
  4. Branding dashboard question(https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/8421 )
  5. Eclipse Theia proposal
  6. Welcome to Guy Daich and introducing Dave Neary
  7. Keycloak configurability

Minutes are in: Google doc

Recording

Minutes 02-APR-2018

Agenda

  1. Type A/B - License Compatibility Certification
  2. Workspace.Next implementation plan
  3. Blogging - open invitation
  4. Roadmap
  5. Workspace logging

Minutes are in Google doc

Recording

Minutes: 19-MAR-2018

Agenda

  1. Kubernetes SPI - Mario
  2. Workspace recovering after disasters - Mario

Minutes are in Google doc.

Recording

Minutes: 05-MAR-2018

Agenda

  1. Explain guides for PR flow - Segii

Minutes are in Google doc.

Recording

Minutes: 05-FEB-2018

Agenda

  1. Introductions (if needed) - Gorkem
  2. The state of the Che 6 release - Roman
  3. Documentation for Che 6 and going forward - Eugene
  4. Update on kubernetes SPI implementation - Sergii

Minutes are in Google Doc

Minutes: 22-JAN-2018

Agenda

  1. Introduction to CloudToGo - Hongxi (CloudToGo)
  2. Reminder on GSoC 2018 - Stevan (Red Hat)
  3. Che 6 GA - Stevan (Red Hat)
  4. K8s support for Che 6 - Gorkem (Red Hat)

Minutes are in Google doc.

Recording

Minutes: 08-JAN-2018

Agenda

  1. Latest update from Che - Gorkem (Red Hat)
  2. JS API status - Gorkem (Red Hat)
  3. Teletype integration demo - Sun (Red Hat)
  4. Performances Improvement and JDT.LS - Stevan (Red Hat)
  5. CLANGD Language Server - Hanno (Silexica)
  6. Internationalisation - Hongxi (Cloud To Go)
  7. Migrating of connector done on Che5 for specific container orchestrator - Hongxi (Cloud To Go)
  8. Kubernetes Connector for Che - Guy Daich (SAP)
  9. Network isolation - Guy Daich (SAP)
  10. Conferences and Meetups - Hongxi (Cloud To Go)

Minutes are in Google doc.

Recording

Minutes: 11-DEC-2017

Agenda

  1. Release documentation and marketing - Gorkem Ercan (Red Hat)
  2. Blog post on Docker checkpoint with criu - Florent Benoit (Red Hat)
  3. Status on teletype in Che - Sun Tan (Red Hat)
  4. CheConf update - now targeted for mid-February 2018 - Brad Micklea (Red Hat)
  5. Moving Che6 on master and Che5 on bugfix branch - Gennady Azarenkov (Red Hat)
  6. The way how to solve different vision on UX design of Eclipse Che Sergii Kabashniuk (Red Hat)

Minutes are in Google doc.

Recording

Minutes: 27-NOV-2017

Agenda

  1. Update on Che 6 GA plan and release - Stevan LeMeur (Red Hat)
  2. C/C++ intellisense / ClangD support for Che - Hanno Kolvenbach (Silexica)
  3. Che in Che development - Sergii Kabashniuk (Red Hat)
  4. Che IDE extensibility with JS plugins - Evgen Vidolob (Red Hat)

Minutes are in Google doc.

Recording

Minutes: 13-NOV-2017

Agenda

  1. JS Extension points - Vitalii Parfonov (Red Hat)
  2. Sidecars - Sergii Kabashniuk (Red Hat)
  3. GWT Improvements - Vitalii Parfonov (Red Hat)
  4. CheConf - Pushed to February - Stevan Le Meur (Red Hat)

Minutes are in Google doc.

Minutes: 30-OCT-2017

Agenda

  1. Update on EclipseCon Europe - Stevan Le Meur (Red Hat)
  2. SAP Che use case - Ido Perea (SAP)
  3. Software AG use case - Barry Dresdner (Software AG)
  4. More communication with the community - Stevan Le Meur (Red Hat)
  5. CheConf 2017 - Brad Micklea (Red Hat)

Minutes are in Google doc. The meeting was also recorded.

Minutes: 16-OCT-2017

Agenda

You can read the notes on the following Google doc.

Minutes: 02-OCT-2017

Agenda

  1. bmicklea: Triaging the Che issues and proper labelling.
  2. bmicklea: Status of multi-user support in Che and how much of "teams" it brings with it.
  3. skabashniuk: Eclipse Che 5.19 and Eclipse Che 6.0-M1 or 6.0-RC1 release plan.
  4. skabashniuk: Che 6: single multi-user assembly (Docker + OpenShift) based.
  5. bmicklea: JIRA and Jenkins plugins from Codenvy - should we prioritize?
  6. Bmicklea: how do we speed up integration of released Language servers?
  7. bmicklea: Where can external contributors / partner companies help us most? How can we enable them?

Actions: 0. @Brad update pull request template. Add more explanation on the wiki. @mario do a call with Californication team to explain about labels usage in Che

  1. Expected to be merge in the current sprint. 4-5. We need additional meetings to provide consolidated vision. @skabashniuk @ivantsov provide some estimation how much memory is used by postgresql and keycloak. 3-7 Not discussed. Moved to the next meeting.

Minutes: 18-SEPT-2017

Agenda

  1. Update on progress toward Che 6
  2. Update on multi-tenant Che running on OpenShift).
  3. Changelog structure in PR (Stevan)
  4. Critical issue with Che IDE: browser freezes all the time (Sun)
  5. Upcoming conferences, events and talks (Stevan)

Multi tenant Che on OpenShift

Auth and permissions are already in the branch. Working on OS tokens and porting resource management from Codenvy. Merge is expected end of next sprint.

Update on progress toward Che 6

Work to be done on factories, commands and pull request panel. Setting up tests on Minishift and looking into testing Che 6 on OCP, OpenShift Dedicated.

Changelog structure in PR

Today, we provide templates for PR with placeholder for docs, related issues that it fixes etc. There's changelog section as well, but it is never used when changelog is generated (only pull request titles are taken into account).

Proposal: Edit PR template with some notes saying that the PR title looks good and is informative. Maybe provide examples of good and bad PR titles. In future, consider adding info on APi changes in changelog (if any).

Critical issue with Che IDE: browser freezes all the time

Problem: with a few big projects in a workspace, browser tab hangs. It may be related to a lot of pending calls to project API. Needs proper investigations.

Action: Vitaly Parfonov and Eugene Ivantsov will try to reproduce and then prioritize.

Upcoming conferences, events and talks

There needs to be a page with info on conferences and talks about Che. Also, it will be great to invite community members to Che Conf which is an online Che conference.

Previous Meetings


Minutes: 4-Sept-2017

Attendees:

  • Stevan Le Meur
  • Roman Iuvshyn
  • Florent Benoit
  • Eugene Ivantsov
  • Ann Shumilova
  • Gennady Azarenkov
  • Sergii Kabashniuk
  • Vitaly Parfonov
  • Mario Loriedo

Agenda

  1. Define how to communicate about the community call (Stevan)
  2. Move community call minutes from CHE wiki ?
  3. Put link to che community call inside the CHE product.

Minutes

Communicating about the community call

  • community meeting runs each second monday
  • community meeting should have a permanent link
  • we do record each meeting

Proposals:

  • we prepare the agenda for the next community call - right after the end of the current one we post an email + on MM the link to the meeting minutes + the link to the next agenda and invite people to propose their topics to the wiki (or by answering the email + asking in MM)
  • Add a link for the call right in IDE which is quite interesting because this way we will cover people that don't know about our twitter or not subscribed to che-dev mail list.
  • we will also include a link into the product to the MM channel (action for stevan)

Actions:

  • @slemeur create an issue to add links to MM + community call inside the IDE

Move community call minutes from CHE wiki

Problems:

  • We have a lot of wiki pages for the meeting minutes which creates navigation problem, if the reader is just using "Pages" panel

Proposals:

  • archive the old meeting minutes

Also discussed:

  • keeping the old meetings can allow people to find interesting information by searching in the wiki
  • there is no other place where we could move the meeting minutes

Actions:

  • improve the homepage of che's wiki so that it better help the reader to navigate into the content of the wiki.

Old Meeting Minutes

Minutes: Aug 21, 2017
Minutes: July 10, 2017
Minutes: July 3, 2017
Minutes: May 10, 2017
Minutes: May 2, 2017
Minutes: April 11, 2017
Minutes: April 4, 2017
Minutes: March 28, 2017
Minutes: March 14, 2017
Minutes: March 7, 2017
Minutes: February 28, 2017
Minutes: February 21, 2017
Minutes: February 14, 2017
Minutes: February 7, 2017
Minutes: January 31, 2017
Minutes: January 24, 2017
Minutes: January 17, 2017
Minutes: January 10, 2017
Minutes: January 3, 2017
Minutes: December 27, 2016
Minutes: December 20, 2016
Minutes: December 13, 2016
Minutes: December 6, 2016
Minutes: November 29, 2016
Minutes: November 22, 2016
Minutes: November 8, 2016
Minutes: November 1, 2016
Minutes: October 18, 2016
Minutes: October 11, 2016
Minutes: October 4, 2016
Minutes: September 27, 2016
Minutes: September 20, 2016
Minutes: September 13, 2016
Minutes: July 19, 2016
Minutes: July 12, 2016
Minutes: July 5, 2016
Minutes: June 29, 2016
Minutes: June 21, 2016
Minutes: June 14, 2016
Minutes: June 6, 2016
Minutes: May 31, 2016
Minutes: May 23, 2016
Minutes: May 17, 2016
Minutes: May 10, 2016
Minutes: April 25, 2016
Minutes: April 19, 2016
Minutes: April 12, 2016
Minutes: April 5, 2016
Minutes: March 29, 2016
Minutes: March 22, 2016
Minutes: March 15, 2016
Minutes: March 01, 2016
Minutes: February 23, 2016
Minutes: February 16, 2016